








     CCSSaavvee:: IInnssttaallllaattiioonn,, CCoonnffiigguurraattiioonn,, aanndd OOppeerraattiioonn


                        _H_S _S_o_f_t_w_a_r_e



11..  CCSSaavvee PPaacckkaaggee CCoonntteennttss
CSave includes several useful programs:
CSaveGUI - ncurses-based UNIX GUI
CSaveMenu - CSave Main Menu
SaveToProto - Convert saves to protobuf format
ProtoToSave  -  Convert  edited protobuf format files to BL3
saves
ProfileToProto - Convert profile saves to protobuf format
ProtoToProfile - Convert edited protobuf format  profile  to
BL3 saves
SaveGenerate - Protobuf format save editor
ProfileGenerate - Protobuf format profile editor
SaveConvert  -  Convert  BL3  saves  to other platforms, and
change the bitmask
LookupTables - required files for item editing.
Scripts - CSave script files, mostly for SaveGenerate.


22..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((PPrreebbuuiilltt BBuuiillddss))  --  WWiinnddoowwss  ((CCyyggwwiinn--ccoomm--
ppiilleedd))

     This  is  the  recommended way to get CSave up and run-
ning. You need to do two things: First, download  everything
in  the build_win64 folder and put all of those files into a
folder somewhere. Then, create a folder named "LookupTables"
in  the folder where you put the CSave executables. Download
everything from the LookupTables folder on GitHub  and  copy
them  into  your LookupTables folder. It is MUCH easier just
to use GitHub's "download zip" function to get  CSave.  That
way,  you  can drag-and-drop the files to anywhere you want.
Please note that CSave _w_i_l_l _n_o_t _f_u_n_c_t_i_o_n _c_o_r_r_e_c_t_l_y if you do
not download the LookupTables properly. Next, open up a com-
mand prompt, and use the "cd" command to navigate  to  where
your CSave folder is. It is easiest to open the CSave folder
on Windows Explorer, click up top where  the  path  is  dis-
played,  and  copy and paste the path after the "cd" command
on your command prompt.


33..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((PPrreebbuuiilltt BBiinnaarriieess))  --  WWiinnddoowwss  ((MMSSVVCC--ccoomm--
ppiilleedd))

     As  an  alternative to the Cygwin-built CSave binaries,
you may also use the MSVC-compiled version of CSave (MSVC  =









                             -2-


Microsoft (R) Visual Studio (TM) C/C++). Follow the instruc-
tions above, and be sure to  download  the  LookupTables  as
well. The MSVC version of the CSave binaries is functionally
equalivent to the "standard" Cygwin binaries.


44..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((PPrreebbuuiilltt BBiinnaarriieess)) -- OOSS//22 vveerrssiioonn 22++

     CSave supports OS/2 2.0 and newer as valid OSes to  run
itself  on.  First,  go  to the CSave GitHub page and either
download the files in  the  "build_os2v2"  folder  and  copy
those  over  to your OS/2 system. Please note that there are
minor issues running CSave on an SMP  OS/2  system.  Crashes
have  been reported on OS/2 2.11 SMP, OS/2 Warp 3.0 SMP, and
OS/2 Warp 4.52 (W4 kernel). Remember to  also  download  the
LookupTables  fileset  as  well,  or you will not be able to
edit items at all.


55..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((CCoommppiilliinngg)) -- UUnniixx,, LLiinnuuxx,, BBSSDD,, aanndd WWiinnddoowwss
((CCyyggwwiinn))

     The first thing you need to do is set up your build en-
vironment - install protobuf,  gcc,  pkg-config,  make,  and
git.  After you've installed everything, retrieve the source
code   for    protobuf-c    by    executing    "git    clone
https://github.com/protobuf-c/protobuf-c.git".  Next,  enter
the source code directory (cd protobuf-c) and execute "./au-
togen.sh", "./configure", "make -j4", and "make install". If
the shell script isn't executable,  do  a  "chmod  +x  auto-
gen.sh" before attempting to compile. Once you have success-
fully installed protobuf-c, return to your home directory  -
execute  "cd" - and download the CSave source code with "git
clone  https://github.com/HackerSmacker/CSave.git".    Enter
the  CSave source code directory with "cd CSave" and compile
it with "make". Continue to the Operations section.


66..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((CCoommppiilliinngg)) -- WWiinnddoowwss ((NNaattiivvee//MMSSVVCC))

     First, you need to compile protobuf-c  and  add  it  to
your  install's "Lib and "Include and make sure they are ac-
cessible by the compliler. From there, use a GNU  make  like
this:  "make  -f Makefile.vc". This will compile CSave using
the Visual C++ toolchain. You will need to edit  Makefile.vc
to tell the linker where the protobuf-c library is.


77..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((CCoommppiilliinngg)) -- OOSS//22 ((WWaattccoomm CC//CC++++ 1111))

     First, compile protobuf-c and install the single header
it comes with.  Then, edit  Makefile.watcom  and  make  sure
SYSTEM  =  os2v2.  os2v2  is OS/2 version 2 and newer.  From
there, type "make -f Makefile.watcom" to cross-compile.  You









                             -3-


will  need  to edit Makefile.watcom to tell the linker where
to find the protobuf-c library.


88..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((CCoommppiilliinngg)) -- OOSS//22 ((EEMMXX//AArrccaaOOSS PPaacckkaaggeess))

     Follow  the  Unix  installation  instructions   written
above. The same process should apply. You might need to edit
the Makefile to get it to properly compile.


99..  IInnssttaallllaattiioonn ((CCoommppiilliinngg)) -- OOppeennVVMMSS 88..44 ((DDEECC CC//CC++++))

     CSave does not cleanly compile with the DEC C compiler.
Use a cross compiler or use GNV.  Make sure your GCC version
in GNV is 8.0.0 or newer, as the protobuf-c outputs will not
compile.



1100..  OOppeerraattiioonn


1100..11..  QQuuiicckk ssttaarrtt wwiitthh CCSSaavveeMMeennuu

     For  new users, it is highly recommended that you start
with CSaveMenu. You can run it directly from the folder that
you  installed  CSave  to - on any platform. The precompiled
builds of CSave should run on any OS.

     CSaveMenu is a question-and-answer driven  application,
so  be  sure to read each prompt and check this manual care-
fully if it asks you to.


1100..22..  QQuuiicckk ssttaarrtt

     Start by running "SaveToProto XXX.sav" and then  "Save-
Unpack  XXX.sav.proto" to get information about a save file.
You can then use "SaveGenerate XXX.sav.proto" and then "Pro-
toToSave  XXX.proto"  to  get  a  usable  file.  If you have
CSaveGUI installed, please just use that.



1100..33..  CCoonnvveerrttiinngg ssaavveess

     The included utilities "SaveToProto" and  "ProtoToSave"
to  convert  to and from "binary format" (i.e. a normal save
file) and "protobuf format" (the data actually in  the  save
file)  with  ease.  These programs take one parameter each -
the name of the save file.
To convert a save to protobuf  format:  "SaveToProto  origi-
nal.sav"









                             -4-


To   edit   the   file:   "SaveGenerate   original.sav.proto
edited.proto"
To convert from protobuf format to binary format:  "ProtoTo-
Save edited.proto original.sav"

     Likewise,  you must also convert your profile saves. To
acomplish this, use these programs:
To convert a profile  to  protobuf  format:  "ProfileToProto
profile.sav"
To   edit   the  file:  "ProfileGenereate  profile.sav.proto
profedited.sav.proto"
To convert from protobuf format to binary format:  "ProtoTo-
Profile profedited.sav.proto profile.sav"

     If  you want to convert to and from console saves, sim-
ply put the "profile code" number as the last  command  line
argument.   For  SaveToProto,  enter  something  like  this:
"SaveToProto 2.sav 3"  (3  is  the  platform  code  for  PS4
saves).  For ProtoToSave, enter something like this: "Proto-
ToSave 2.sav.proto 2.sav 3"


1100..44..  CCoonnvveerrttiinngg ssaavveess aaccrroossss ddiiffffeerreenntt ppllaattffoorrmmss

     The "SaveConvert" program can convert, for instance,  a
PS4  save to a PC save. It manipulates the header and re-en-
codes the save data. Use this program with care,  as  it  is
basically a shortcut to running SaveToProto and ProtoToSave,
except this program manipulates the headers to make the game
not  clobber  over  your save. Of course, you can also use a
series of other CSave commands  to  manually  convert  saves
without  using  SaveConvert.  SaveConvert is useful for con-
verting a large amount of saves in batch - just be  sure  to
specify the correct platform numbers.


1100..55..

     There  are  several  example  scripts  in the "Scripts"
folder included with the distribution. Please inspect  these
files  and  realize  that they are actually just a series of
commands you pipe into SaveGenerate or ProfileGenerate.   To
"run"  a script file, use a command like this: "SaveGenerate
input.sav.proto output.sav.proto < scriptFile.txt".   Please
note  that  your  command shell might have different command
syntax. Make sure that "SaveGenerate" and/or  "ProfileGener-
ate"  are  in your system path, or are in the same folder as
your scripts are stored. Also note that the Windows  command
processor and PowerShell are not case-sensitive.














                             -5-


1100..66..  EEddiittiinngg ssaavveess


1100..77..  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee LLiisstt ooff PPrrooffiilleeGGeenneerraattee ccoommmmaannddss


1100..77..11..  sseett ggoollddeennkkeeyyss

     This  command  sets  how  many Golden Keys you have. It
will ask for how many you want.


1100..77..22..  uunnlloocckk aallll

     Unlocks _e_v_e_r_y_t_h_i_n_g_.  Please note that this could  cause
some  problems.  Also, AABBSSOOLLUUTTEELLYY UUNNDDEERR NNOO CCIIRRCCUUMMSSTTAANNCCEESS UUSSEE
TTHHIISS CCOOMMMMAANNDD UUNNLLEESSSS YYOOUU HHAAVVEE MMEETT TTHHEE  LLIICCEENNSSEE  RREEQQUUIIRREEMMEENNTTSS..
IITT  IISS  IILLLLEEGGAALL  TTOO UUSSEE TTHHIISS CCOOMMMMAANNDD TTOO OOBBTTAAIINN CCOONNTTEENNTT WWHHIICCHH
YYOOUU DDIIDD NNOOTT PPAAYY FFOORR.. II AASSSSUUMMEE NNOO LLIIAABBIILLIITTYY IIFF YYOOUU UUSSEE TTHHIISS..


1100..77..33..  sseett ggttookkeennss

     This command can be used to  set  how  many  unredeemed
Guardian Rank tokens you have. Specify any number.


1100..77..44..  sseett ggrraannkk

     Use  this  command to set your Guardian Rank level (the
one that appears at the bottom of the screen). Use this com-
mand with caution, as this is a deprecated field.


1100..77..55..  sseett ggeexxpp

     Set the _o_l_d Guardian Rank experience level. Please note
that this value is no longer used.


1100..77..66..  sseett ggnneewweexxpp

     Set the Guardian Rank experience level.  Use  this  in-
stead  of  the "set gexp" command as that field is no longer
used by the game.


1100..77..77..  sseett ggsseeeedd

     Set the Guardian Rank random rewards seed. Please enter
it  in integer form. ProfileUnpack will output that value in
integer form. If you are given  a  hexadecimal-format  seed,
use a calculator to convert it to decimal and enter it.










                             -6-


1100..88..  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee LLiisstt ooff SSaavveeGGeenneerraattee ccoommmmaannddss


1100..88..11..  qquuiitt,, eexxiitt

     Exit  from SaveGenerate. The output file will be gener-
ated and saved. Please now run ProtoToSave to pack the  save
file into a BL3 binary format save.


1100..88..22..  sseett nnaammee

     Set  the  player's preferred name. It will prompt for a
string.


1100..88..33..  sseett ccllaassss

     Sets the player's class. Takes an integer. 0 is  Amara,
1 is FL4K, 2 is Moze, and 3 is Zane.


1100..88..44..  sseett ssdduu

     Sets  SDU values. Iterates through each SDU and prompts
for a new level. Press Enter to use the previous  value,  or
specify  a blank line if using a script file. If you are us-
ing a script file and you have too many blank lines, the ed-
itor will ignore them. If you don't have enough blank lines,
the editor will set that SDU to zero.


1100..88..55..  sseett mmaayyhheemmlleevveell

     Set the Mayhem Mode level for any playthrough you want.
It  will first prompt for the Mayhem level you want, then it
will  prompt  for  what  playthrough  you  want  to  update.
Playthrough 0 is NVMH, and 1 is TVHM.


1100..88..66..  sseett eexxppooiinnttss

     Set  the  total  amount of experience points. This does
not mean set the level - setting the EXP level  affects  the
level because you need a certain amount of EXP to clear that
level. Prompts for an integer value.


1100..88..77..  sseett lleevveell

     Sets the player level by getting the level, and setting
the  EXP  to  the  minimum  required  to  clear  that level.
Prompts for an integer. The max accepted value  is  80,  al-
though  this  will  not  be  accepted  by the game, and will









                             -7-


instead drop you down to the current level cap.


1100..88..88..  sseett qquueesstt

     This command will prompt the  user  for  three  things:
first,  the  quest  path.  Use "SaveUnpack name.proto | grep
CSAV001MSN" to find the quest. Copy and paste the class path
for  the  mission  into  the  editor.  When prompted for the
playthrough, enter 0 for NVHM or 1 for TVHM. Next, enter the
quest  state  like this: 0 is Not Started, 1 is Active, 2 is
Completed, 3 is Failed, and 4 is Unknown. Do  not  enter  4,
your game will most likely crash.


1100..88..99..  sseett gguuaarrddiiaannrraannkk

     This  feature  is currently not implemented. Check back
later for an update.


1100..88..1100..  sseett mmoonneeyy

     Set how much money you have. Takes an integer.


1100..88..1111..  sseett eerriiddiiuumm

     Sets how much Eridium you have. Takes an integer.


1100..88..1122..  uunnlloocckk sskkiillllttrreeee

     Enable the selection of all skills on  the  tree.  Does
not coorespond to how many skill points you have.


1100..88..1133..  sseett sskkiillllppooiinnttss

     Sets how many skill points you have. Takes an integer -
there does not appear to be a cap on this value.


1100..88..1144..  sseett cchhaalllleennggee

     Modifies a challenge. "Challenges" includes crew  chal-
lenges, and those challenges that pop up on the left side of
your screen every now and  then  (especially  during  a  new
playthrough). Challenges are shared between playthroughs, so
it will not prompt if you want to search NVHM  or  TVHM.  It
will first prompt you for what challenge you want. Enter the
class path of the challenge (remember to use  SaveUnpack  to
find them).  Then, enter a completion state (1 for completed
and 0 for uncompleted).









                             -8-


1100..99..  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee lliisstt ooff CCSSaavvee mmeessssaaggee pprreeffiixxeess
CSAV001GEN - General information
CSAV001CLS - Player class information
CSAV001SKL - Skill points, XP, skills, and tree information
CSAV001SDU - SDU information
CSAV001VEH - Vehicle parts, loadouts, and configurations
CSAV001MSN - Missions/quests
CSAV001AMO - Ammo and grenades
CSAV001GRD - Guardian rank, level, perks, and rewards
CSAV001ROM - Crew  quarters/bedroom  information  (including
guns on the rack)
CSAV001ECH - ECHO logs
CSAV001FTM  - Fast Travel machines: blacklisted, active, and
reachable
CSAV001INV - Inventory: backpack and equipped
CSAV001CUS - Customizations: color, skin, emotes
CSAV001CHL - Challenge information
CSAV001ICL - Money (ICL means Inventory Category List)
CSAV001MHM - Mayhem Mode information
CSAVOO1ILT - Item Lookup Test program
CSAV001FIL - CSave file processing messages
CSAV001ABD - Abnormal End (crash)
CSAV001RWS - Read Write Save operations: loading and  saving
files
CSAV001CNV - Conversion functions


1100..99..11..  PPllaattffoorrmm CCooddeess

     These  numbers  are  supposed to be entered as the last
command line argument on SaveToProto, ProtoToSave,  Profile-
ToProto, or ProtoToProfile.
1 - PC save file - Steam
2 - PC profile file - Steam
3 - PS4 save file
4 - PS4 profile file
5 - XB1 save file (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
6 - XB1 profile file (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
7 - PC save file - Epic Games
8 - PC profile file - Epic Games




















